feat: webapp + wallet sdk / wallet extension + tutorial (#21008)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs-developers/docs/tutorials/js_tutorials/webapp/01-the-contract.md

Reviewer: I started going through this page without realizing that I should actually start on the "Building a Webapp" page. Maybe the page numbering threw me off, since "building a webapp" is actually 1. Maybe just make a note at the top of this page that there are setup instructions on that page that need to be followed before going into this one.

<img width="556" height="248" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/88a6fd32-263b-4e5c-8714-9e513e76ca4c" />

4. `finish_game` (private) — reads all of your `GameRoundNote`s, sums totals per track, and publishes the aggregated scores publicly
5. `finalize_game` (public) — compares both players' track totals, declares the winner (best of 5), and updates win history

**Key types:**
- `GameRoundNote` — a private note storing one round's point allocation (5 track values), the round number, and the owner
- `Race` — the public game state: both player addresses, round counters, final per-track scores, block deadline, and winner

The core design principle is that **private functions** (`play_round`, `finish_game`) hide your strategy, while **public functions** (`create_game`, `join_game`, `finalize_game`) coordinate shared state that both players can see.

## Nargo.toml

Open `contracts/Nargo.toml`. This configures the Noir compiler for the contract:

```toml
[package]
name = "pod_racing_contract"
authors = [""]
compiler_version = ">=0.25.0"
type = "contract"

[dependencies]
aztec = { path = "../../../../noir-projects/aztec-nr/aztec" }
```

:::note

> The `aztec` dependency path assumes you're working within the `aztec-packages` monorepo. If you're working outside the monorepo, use the git dependency instead:

Reviewer: This means that this tutorial will always be for `next`, even if someone is reading from the versioned docs. Can we make this so that it is version aware?

Reviewer: Also I am not sure that this is going to work. With the #include_code macros below, the referenced contracts (from the docs/examples) are going to be at a specific version, but relative path to the `aztec` dep is always going to be whatever is in the monorepo. I guess we should have the reader checkout the specific version of the monorepo for the version of the docs they are reading, that would solve this.

Author: Have added a comment there

```toml
aztec = { git = "https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-nr/", tag = "#include_aztec_version", directory = "aztec" }
```
Replace the tag with your Aztec version.
:::

## GameRoundNote

Open `contracts/src/game_round_note.nr`. This is a private note that stores a player's point allocation for one round:

#include_code game-round-note /docs/examples/webapp-tutorial/contracts/src/game_round_note.nr rust

The fields `track1` through `track5` store the points allocated to each track for that round. `round` identifies which round (1, 2, or 3) the note belongs to. `owner` is the player's address — only the owner's PXE (Private eXecution Environment) can decrypt and read this note.

### How private notes work

> In Aztec, private state is stored as **notes** — encrypted data objects that live in your PXE local database. When a note is created, it is encrypted with the owner's public key so that only the owner's PXE can decrypt and read it. The note is also committed to the network as a hash (called a commitment). The network never sees the plaintext — it only stores the commitment, which proves the note exists without revealing its contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Aztec, private state is stored as **notes** — encrypted data objects that live in your PXE local database. When a note is created, it is encrypted with the owner's public key so that only the owner's PXE can decrypt and read it. The note is also committed to the network as a hash (called a commitment). The network never sees the plaintext — it only stores the commitment, which allows for proving the note exists without revealing its contents.
```

When you call `play_round`, the contract creates a `GameRoundNote` with your allocation. The flow:
1. You call `play_round(gameId, round, 3, 2, 1, 2, 1)` — a **private function**
2. The contract creates a `GameRoundNote` with your allocation, stored privately

> 3. It then enqueues a **public** call to `validate_and_play_round` which increments your round counter (visible) without revealing your points (hidden). "Enqueues" means the private function schedules a public function to run after the private execution completes — private functions cannot modify public state directly, so they use this mechanism to trigger public side effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. It then enqueues a **public** call to `validate_and_play_round` which increments your round counter (visible) without revealing your points (hidden). "Enqueues" means the private function schedules a public function to run after the private execution completes — private functions cannot modify public state directly, so they use this mechanism to trigger public side effects (e.g. state changes or emitting logs).
```

### Deploy the contract

#include_code script-deploy /docs/examples/webapp-tutorial/scripts/deploy-and-interact.ts typescript

### Create and join a game

#include_code script-create-join /docs/examples/webapp-tutorial/scripts/deploy-and-interact.ts typescript

### Play rounds

#include_code script-play-rounds /docs/examples/webapp-tutorial/scripts/deploy-and-interact.ts typescript

Each `play_round` call is a private transaction — the point allocations are encrypted as notes. Alice and Bob each play 3 rounds.

### Finish and finalize

#include_code script-finish-finalize /docs/examples/webapp-tutorial/scripts/deploy-and-interact.ts typescript

Both players call `finish_game` to reveal their aggregated scores, then either player calls `finalize_game` to determine the winner.

### Run it

Make sure you have a local network running, then:

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start the local network
aztec start --local-network

# Terminal 2: Run the script

> yarn interact

Reviewer: this fails. so i recommend this: https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/pull/21008/changes#r2892240956

Author: this didn't link right, but i'm assuming this is to a suggestion i applied
